#Git spurningar og svör

1. Hvað gera eftirfarandi Linux skipanir?
	cd = you use cd to change your directory
	cd ~ = cd ~ takes you to your home directory
	ls = ls shows all doccuments in the directory you are in
	pwd = pwd prints the name of the current working directory
	mkdir = mkdir creates a new directory

2. Hvað gera eftirfarandi git skipanir og hvers vegna eru þær gagnlegar?
	git clone = just copies your git
	git log = shows the commit logs
	git status = shows the working tree status
	git diff = Show changes between commits, commit and working tree,
		etc
	git checkout = Switch branches or restore working tree files

	3. Hver er munurinn á eftirfarandi git skipunum:
	a) git diff = analyzes two files and prints the lines that are
		different
	b) git diff --staged = makes it local at my computer but dont make 
		it public
	c) git diff commit1 commit2 = the final step making it public

	4. 	Hvað er útgáfustýring (e.version control)?
		records all changes to a file or aset of files over time

	5.	Hverjir eru helstu kostir við að nota GIT?
		if there are alot of people working on the same project you can see who did what and who made what changes and if needed you can go back if you made a mistake

	6.	Hversu oft telur þú að eigi að gera commit í verkefni, rökstuddu?
		at least 10 times for every question. or more if you wanna change any of the answers you gave.

	7.	Hvað er "Working directory"?" "Staging area"?" og "Repository" í GIT?

	working directory : is the current directory you are working on and is being tracket

	staging area : is basicly where you get to decide what files get sent or not

	Repository : is basicly the history of the work you have done.

	8.	Hvenær er sniðugt að nota greinar (branches)? 
		when you know you are going to have to have alot of folders for something and to make it easier to find what you are looking for.

	9.	Hver fann upp GIT?
		 Linus Torvalds in 2005 for development of the Linux kernel

	10.	Hvar er GIT helst notað?
		git can be used by anyone who has to do anything with moving or changing any type of files but it is mostly used by programers or web designers.